# h1 - First steps

a) EP 26: IRS
This episode dealt with an incident that occurred in 2015, the year when IRS’s budget was at its lowest and the employee numbers were dwindling while also having a hiring freeze. This resulted in 30% of the systems in the network not being monitored and a lack of updated software, meaning that some of the software were 50 years old.
On the same year they added a new function which was received with positive reinforcement from the customers called “get transcript” this allowed the customer to received their last years tax records. The great thing about it was the the customers didn’t need to pay 50 dollars to get it any more if they would just answer some security questions that the IRS already had anwser to such as ur previous addresses or the highschool that one went to, which one needed to marked in the multiple choices.
The problem with this approach was that if one wanted to steal this information to do tax fraud they would just need a few basic things: your name, last name, social security number, email and to answer the security question which are quite easy. There had also been multiple data leaks that year of peoples private information allowing for easy access.
The ease of attaining someone else’s tax statements caused the USA to loose 40 million in only 3 months and 700 thousand individuals got their information stolen and money.
The IRS tried to combat this by releasing PIN numbers but that failed as quickly as it came as the pins were sent through the website instead of sending it through mail like the banks so the hackers gained access to the pins as soon as they were released.
This scandal caused mayhem in the whole of United States, it United both parties to one goal and that was to deal with this issue.
The individuals who stole this information were varied and at times hard to track making the situation extremely tricky in the end. 


 b) Summary: Intelligence-Driven Computer Network Defense Informed by Analysis of Adversary Campaigns and Intrusion Kill Chains

The paper introduces the idea of using the intrusion Kill chain as an ally to assist in getting a holistic knowledge of the vulnerabilities in the system and to get a constant feedback loop that will enlighten the organization on where to invest resources to improve the whole and aid in pattern recognition of the attackers. 
The paper also gave information on the kill chain 7 step process: reconnaissance, weaponization, delivery, exploitation, installation, command and control, actions on objectives. These steps are used by the attackers and the course of action given in this paper is to use the defenders to measure the capabilities of their security in each step to see how well they perform against attackers and how in the future they can improve not just the whole system but to close any gaps in the system that might've been open . 

c) installed Debian 12-Bullseye virtual machine in VirtualBox 
